# Thesis_KNMI_2021-2022
This repository contains the codes used for my master thesis that I carried out at the KNMI from September 2021 to May 2022. The title of the project is: "Atmospheric dynamics affecting Caribbean precipitation under climate change. A CMIP6 analysis."

The project is devided in two parts. The first part is the analysis of CMIP6, which tries to understand the drivers of precipitation trends at the end of the 21 st century. The second part is the development of the climate scenarios for the Caribbean region following the methodology from Lenderink 2014. All the scripts for the first part are included in the Scripst dynamocs folder. For the second part, none of the scripts are included since they belong to the KNMI. The code to preprocess the CMIP6 output to carry out the analysis is included in the Scripts preprocessing folder. 

In the dynamics part we look at the multimodel mean of 32 CMIP6 models for the scaled change in different variables (temperature, precipitation, omega at 500  hPa, wind at 850 hPa, sea level pressure, vertical wind shear, P-E, moisture convergence by the mean flow, moisture advection and mass convergence). Then we are able to understand the changes in atmospheric circulation affecting precipitation in the Caribbean at the end of the 21sr century under a global warming scenario. Morevoer, to find the drivers of the CMIP6 intermodel spread for precipitation projections at the end of the century, we define the wet and dry models. We, then, compute the difference between these two group of models. Moreover, some model validation analysis are carried out in this project. 
